hey guys my name is vishwas and welcome
to a brand new series on react for
beginners in this series we will start
from scratch and learned the different
concepts in react in this introductory
video I will briefly talk about what is
react why should you learn react and
also talk about the future content on
react I will be creating on this channel
we will also quickly go over the
prerequisites to get started with react
let's begin with what is react react is
an open source JavaScript library for
building user interfaces there are two
key points in this definition the first
one is that react is a JavaScript
library it is not a framework it is
library it is focused on doing one thing
and doing that one thing really well and
that is the second part building user
interfaces so react does not focus on
the other aspects of your application
like routing or HTTP requests it is
responsible only for building rich user
interfaces now if that raises a concern
as to how you would handle routing HTTP
and other functionality you don't have
to worry about it react has a rich
ecosystem and plays really well with
other libraries and is more than capable
of building full-fledged web
applications alright now that we know
what react is and for what purpose it is
used let's see why you might want to
learn react let's start with the fact
that react is a project created and
maintained by Facebook when a company
like Facebook uses to react in its own
products and invests money and resources
to keep the project alive you can be
rest assured it is not going to die down
anytime soon as of this recording it
more than a hundred thousand stars on
github and a huge community behind it
this means to say you will be able to
find tons of articles and Stack Overflow
solutions to most of the problems that
you will encounter when getting started
with react also if you read through
Stack Overflow developer survey every
year you will quickly find out that
react has become increasingly popular
among developers and is also one of the
most sought out skill sets by companies
right now learn react and you have a
great chance of landing that front-end
developer job you've always wanted now
let me touch slightly on the technical
aspects of react and why it is a good
choice react has a component based
architecture this lets you break down
your application into small encapsulated
parts which can then be composed to make
more complex UIs for example a
traditional website can be broken down
into header side nav main content and
footer each section represents a
component which when composed in the
right way make up the entire website
components also make it possible to
write reusable code for example you
could have the component for an article
on react the same component can be
reused for articles on angular or view
by simply passing the right data into
the article component for enterprise
applications the ability to reuse code
is a huge plus point another key point
is that react is declarative now what
does that mean well basically we just
have to tell react what we want and
react with its react Dom library will
build the actual UI this is the
declarative paradigm now this is in
contrast with the imperative paradigm we
are usually used to
which implements algorithms in explicit
steps let me give you a relatable
example let's say you go to an artist
you ask them to draw a landscape you
don't tell them how to draw it it's up
to them
this is declarative you tell what has to
be done and the artist will get it done
for you now the same task you ask off a
five-year-old child but this time you
tell them to first draw the mountains
then the river then the trees and so on
you explicitly specify each step and you
control the flow of the landscape that
is imperative paradigm why this is
important to understand is because react
is declarative you have to tell react
what the UI should look like and react
will create the actual UI react will
make it painless for you to create
complex UI s by abstracting away the
difficult parts react will handle
efficiently updating and rendering just
the right components in your application
when your data changes Dom updates which
is one of the more expensive operations
is handled gracefully in react now react
also makes no assumptions about the rest
of the technology stack you are using
for your project you can seamlessly
integrate react into any of your
applications be it just a portion of the
page or a complete page or even an
entire application itself react will fit
right in and once you have a good grasp
on react you can also enter the world of
mobile applications with react native
the bottom line is that react will be a
great addition to your skill set now
then what are the prerequisites to get
started with react HTML CSS and
JavaScript fundamentals are absolutely
necessary
for this course I will also be making
use of es so a knowledge of modern
JavaScript is also essential you don't
have to be an expert by any means but
there are a few features that make it so
much easier to write rewrite code and
that is why I recommend learning react
with es to help you out I've made a
list of some of the JavaScript and es
concepts that you should be aware of
with JavaScript make sure you're aware
of this keyword filter map and reduce
methods mainly the map method with es
please go through let and const
declarations arrow functions template
literals default parameters object
literals rest and spread operators and
finally the structuring assignment i
have a complete tutorial series on es
on all these topics so please feel free
to go through them and then continue
with react it will only take you an hour
or so let me tell you that no prior
knowledge of any other JavaScript
libraries or frameworks is necessary we
will be learning react from scratch let
me also share my plant on the content I
will be creating for react so that you
will know what to expect in the coming
future we will start off with react
fundamentals after that we will take a
look at react and HTTP that is followed
by routing with react and then we have
state management with redux finally we
will take a look at some useful
utilities or libraries that will work
well with react one thing I do have to
mention here is that react just like any
other framework is also going to undergo
breaking changes as of this recording we
will be using react version  dot .
if you're watching this series and year
or so from now
the
major version might be different but be
rest assured % of the content will
remain valid for the breaking changes I
will make sure to pin a comment in the
particular video and also create an
updated video for your reference my goal
is to make sure we all advance from a
complete beginner to being an expert in
react all right then with this
introduction let's get started with a
simple hello world application in the
next video thank you guys for watching
don't forget subscribe and I'll see you
guys in the next one
